- [Narrator] One of my favorite interfaces
in the Spring Boot ecosystem,
and one that is very seldom talked about,
is the CommandLineRunner.
Now the CommandLineRunner is a very simple
and effective tool,
when you need to do some set amount of work.
We don't always need to bring in web
or some other big processes in order to do a simple task.
Sometimes we just want to do a body of work
and we want it deployed as a task, but we want to use spring
in the most efficient way possible.
So this is where I feel that spring boot
especially with CommandLineRunner really shines.
Now you can run it as a standalone spring boot application
or you can run it in another spring boot application,
say a weather application or a spring batch application,
such that on startup, it will execute.
In addition, you can use this as an admin
or a batch process as part of your application
as alluded to or in standalone fashion.
But that's really the key, the fact that it's like admin
or batch operations is really what we're targeting.
Now, if we take a look at the CommandLineRunner Interface,
it provides access to the application arguments
and oftentimes, when we want to write
a command line process, that's really what we need.
We need to be able to inject those arguments
into our Java code and then execute based on those.
It can run simple or complex set of tasks,
it's really up to you.
And as I mentioned, it can be used standalone or within
a running application, because when you get access to it,
springs application context is up and running.
Then you build and run your task
and that's all you have to do to implement it.
It is a simple run method.
Now the CommandLineRunner interface has a cousin
and that's the ApplicationRunner Interface.
And really it's a very close cousin
because they work in almost the exact same manner.
They run a single-run method as part of their operations.
You have access to the application arguments
themselves with the ApplicationRunner
just like with the CommandLineRunner.
Now with spring, there's almost always a way
to order behavior and CommandLineRunner
or ApplicationRunners are no different.
One thing to note is that you can put more
than one of these into a given spring package.
And when you do that, you need to control that order
and that's really where the power comes.
So you can use the @order annotation to determine
which ones go first which ones go last
by simply applying an order.
So what you can do is if you have multiple tasks
that must be executed in a single operation,
you can put them into a single package, deploy them together
and allow spring to control the order of operations.
Kind of like when you're in bash and you pipe commands
together, you're getting the same sort of structure
with the CommandLineRunner and the @Order annotation.